[Music]
what's happening everybody it's Mike and
Rolla and I'm talking to you today about
hand protection and whether you have MMA
gloves or boxing gloves you're gonna
have to decide should I protect my
wrists with tape should I use wrap
should I use nothing so today I have two
examples we have up just a regular
sports tape and you can get this
anywhere of Modell's CVS or hockey tape
this is fantastic
for making sure the skin doesn't get
ripped apart the most common mistake is
people are slicing off on the throwing
punches ever so slightly but after a
thousand punches you start to get it
burn and you'll be able to tell you're
doing that because you'll see bruising
along the inside of the knuckles right
here that means you're sliding off a
little bit on your punch so one thing
you want to do is make sure your hand is
striking and then coming directly back
and not sliding even ever so slightly
after a thousand punches it's being
magnified and it's giving your hand a
little bit of burn so the best thing you
can do is use a tape here and better
technique and I'll show you you see a
lot of people will tape their hands with
their knuckles together in my opinion
it's it's gonna basically keep your hand
too stiff you're not gonna be able to
move at all if you're doing a lot of
cross-training and different weights
you're gonna want to be able to flex the
fingers a little bit so I like to spread
the fingers out get a nice piece of tape
of course use the chin it's two or three
right over two knuckles and this is
provided that you have a nice pair of
gloves on rip it off
trust me that's not going anywhere this
tape is phenomenal even better than
wraps for your wrist and a lot of people
strike the bag and then the wrist gets
compromised bends down and then they
spray on a wrist or they just have a
bell just a little tweak in there so we
want to keep that wrist straight and
what we're gonna do is spread the finger
nice and wide I'll do it on this end
spread your head nice and tight so you
can't cut the circulation off if your
fingers are loose and lip you're gonna
cut the circulation off pretty easily so
hands spread nice and tight get a nice
long ribbon you'll be able to feel when
you're doing yourself if you're cutting
off the circulation which hopefully you
won't just nice nice and tight you real
be able to get quite a few layers there
tear it make sure it's not too tight and
right there that is better protection
and a wraps will be able to provide you
because it's not going to move at all
and if you if you're using boxing gloves
or just bag gloves I highly recommend
this taken me quite some time to develop
toughness and my wrist but if you're
just starting out this tape is
unbelievable fantastic second option is
a wrap and there's a couple of different
style wraps this one right here is just
your traditional cause wrap I do prefer
a Mexican style wrap which are almost
like elastic because they'll be able to
if you're using a boxing glove this is
probably your best bet she's gonna keep
everything firm but if you're using an
MMA glove you need something that's
really can contort for the hand this is
going to look like this
we slip this there's a lot of different
ways to do it and we'll probably show
you a bunch it's gonna slide right over
your thumb what you want to do is go
twice over your wrist you always want to
offset it slightly right there we don't
want to line it up exactly because it'll
slip down offset it ever so slightly
keep it taut
from there I'm gonna go around the palm
this one we're not gonna go in between
the knuckles but and some later series
we'll show you some different styles
twice over your palm you just use the
bridge of your thumb actually we're
going between the knuckles how about
that I know that's a style now you kids
make sure it's nice and straight here in
between your fingers and between the
fingers and we're kind of limited
because this wrap looks like about it
142 inches which means it's not as long
as one of the 180s or two 20s then I'm
just gonna make it nice and neat here
come on inside here
finish it up and my last wrap is the
tightest one to spread your fingers
tight pull it across then you got some
ultimate protection on your hand tape
and wraps you get a nice open palm in
make love possibly a unboxing glove box
and gloves of course you got a lot more
knuckle protection but you're gonna
notice you hit the bag in the wrong
spots with boxing gloves
because you can hit on the small
knuckles all the impacts got to be
distributed pretty evenly on the lead
two knuckles right there that's the
strongest part of your hand then the
impacts going to go up through the wrist
up through your shoulder when you hit
with the small part of your hand or down
on this part of your knuckle that's when
you sustained more injury let's just
want the impact to go directly into
those two knuckles and you'll be
absolutely fine especially on your hooks
hit and then right back
it's technique you also have to warm up
your hands if it's dry out it's cold and
you just come in and start hitting as
hard as you can I'm gonna split the skin
on your knuckles
warm it up push your skin around in your
fist stretch the skin out a little bit
and you'll be able to strike a lot
longer first five minutes light strikes
don't strike art and then later on you
can crush it and that's hand protection
we'll show you a bunch of different
wraps keep on tuning in we got great
information for you